New CSS data types: <absolute-size> and <relative-size> (#28461)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/relative-size/index.md

---
title: <relative-size>
slug: Web/CSS/relative-size
page-type: css-type
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-fonts/#valdef-font-size-relative-size
---

{{CSSRef}}

> The **`<relative-size>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) describes relative size keywords. The `<relative-size>` values define a size relative to the computed size of the parent element. This data type is used in the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand and {{cssxref("font-size")}} properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`<relative-size>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) describes relative size keywords. The `<relative-size>` keywords define a size relative to the computed size of the parent element. This data type is used in the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand and {{cssxref("font-size")}} properties.
```

## Syntax

The `<relative-size>` data type is defined using a keyword value chosen from the list below.

### Values

- `smaller`

  - : A relative size one size smaller than the inherited size.

- `bigger`

  - : A relative size one size larger than the inherited size.

## Description

> The values of the `<relative-size>` keywords are relative to the current size the element would otherwise be. If the inherited size was defined using an {{cssxref("absolute-size")}}, the `<relative-size>` equates to the adjacent size in the `<absolute-size>` table. Otherwise, the relative increase or decrease is between 120% and 150%.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `<relative-size>` keywords are relative to the current size of the element. If the inherited size is defined using an {{cssxref("absolute-size")}} keyword, the `<relative-size>` value equates to the adjacent size in the [`<absolute-size>` table](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/absolute-size#description). Otherwise, the relative increase or decrease in size is between 120% and 150%.
```
- can we explain or link to "inherited size"? How is inherited size related to current size?
- We don't refer to "adjacent size" in the table on `<absolute-size>` page, that makes the second sentence a bit unclear

## Formal syntax

```plain
<relative-size> = smaller | larger

> ```

Reviewer: The syntax can be moved to the "Syntax" section and "Formal syntax" should be deleted

> ## Examples
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples

### Comparing the <relative-size> keyword values
```

```html
<ul>

>   <li class="smaller">font-size: smaller;</li>
>   <li>No font-size set</li>
>   <li class="larger">font-size: larger;</li>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <li class="smaller">font-size: smaller</li>
  <li>font-size is not specified</li>
  <li class="larger">font-size: larger</li>
```
We don't need the ending semi-colon in text display

</ul>
```

```css
li {
  margin-bottom: 0.3em;
}
.smaller {
  font-size: smaller;
}
.larger {
  font-size: larger;
}
```

#### Result

> {{EmbedLiveSample('Examples', '100%', 100)}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample('Comparing the relative-size keyword values', '100%', 100)}}
```

## Specifications

{{Specifications}}

## See also

- CSS {{cssxref("absolute-size")}} data type

> - CSS {{cssxref("font")}} and {{cssxref("font-size")}} properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

page-type: css-type
spec-urls: https://drafts.csswg.org/css-fonts/#valdef-font-size-relative-size
---

{{CSSRef}}

The **`<relative-size>`** [CSS](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS) [data type](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_Types) describes relative size keywords. The `<relative-size>` keywords define a size relative to the computed size of the parent element. This data type is used in the {{cssxref("font")}} shorthand and {{cssxref("font-size")}} properties.

## Syntax

The `<relative-size>` data type is defined using a keyword value chosen from the list below.

### Values

- `smaller`

  - : A relative size one size smaller than the inherited size.

- `bigger`

  - : A relative size one size larger than the inherited size.

## Description

The `<relative-size>` keywords are relative to the current size of the element. If the inherited size is defined using an {{cssxref("absolute-size")}} keyword, the `<relative-size>` value equates to the adjacent size in the [`<absolute-size>` table](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/absolute-size#description). Otherwise, the relative increase or decrease in size is between 120% and 150%.

## Formal syntax

```plain
<relative-size> = smaller | larger
```

## Examples

> ### Comparing the <relative-size> keyword values

Author: ```suggestion
### Comparing the keyword values
```

```html
<ul>
  <li class="smaller">font-size: smaller;</li>
  <li>No font-size set</li>
  <li class="larger">font-size: larger;</li>
</ul>
```

```css
li {
  margin-bottom: 0.3em;
}
.smaller {
  font-size: smaller;
}
.larger {
  font-size: larger;
}
```

#### Result

> {{EmbedLiveSample('Comparing the relative-size keyword values', '100%', 100)}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{EmbedLiveSample('Comparing the keyword values', '100%', 100)}}
```
